The head of the UK civil service, cabinet secretary Jeremy Heywood, has admitted that the service’s use of technology has lagged behind the business world for too long, and stated its commitment to the work of the Government Digital Service.

Heywood pushed the idea of “government as a platform” – a central service that links all aspects of customer-facing government instead of running a series of disjointed silos as it has done in the past.

“Things are changing in the Civil Service. Government is adopting new ideas and new ways of working to make everything we do better for users, and more efficient,” said Heywood in a blog post. “Many in the world of business understood this and adapted to it years ago. The Civil Service lagged behind. Now we are changing that.”

The Government Digital Service (GDS), a unit of the Cabinet Office tasked with rebuilding the government’s services online, has been methodically overhauling and simplifying hundreds of government websites which handle 700 services from 24 government departments and 331 agencies for the whole UK.

It may not have been just the vivid characters or the tense plots that kept people coming back to Breaking Bad. Some fans – and of course we can’t know how many – seem also to have valued it as a source of practical advice and information.

Prosecutors in the ongoing trial of Kuntal Patel claim that she tried to murder her mother with abrin, a poison similar to the ricin used by Walter White. The plot, they told the court, was “inspired, in part, by the US television series Breaking Bad”. Meanwhile, in Florida, one truly devoted fan is awaiting trial after 318kg of synthetic marijuana was allegedly found at his home during a police raid in January. A year ago, in happier times,Ryan Carroll was discovering that he had won a raffle to watch the Breaking Bad series finale at a cast party in Los Angeles. “People can relate to the main character,” he said, when asked why the show was so successful. Perhaps his trial will determine just how much.

Last year, Stephen Doran, a teacher in Boston who had been diagnosed with cancer, was charged with trafficking methamphetamine after 480g of it was alleged delivered to him. Three years previously, blue methamphetamine was found in Kansas, possibly in imitation of Walter White’s own product. In Spokane, Washington, Jason Hart is currently on trial for the alleged murder of his girlfriend Regan Jolley, following which it is claimed he tried to dispose of her body in the same way that Walter White and Jesse Pinkman do, by dissolving it in acid.
